Lecture 1 of SUM18 Java Course - By Aman Garg
----------------------------------------------

Git and Github :
--------------
Git is a VCS i.e Version Control Sytem for tracking changes in computer files and co-ordinating work on those files among multiple people.
Github is a platform that hosts repositories and code for the developers to interact and work on the same codebase without any hesitation

Git Commands : There are n number of commands in git, but we will use some of them very much.
------------ 
1. git init : It initializes an empty repository in the created folder.

2. git add  : It adds the files that are newly created or modified to the repository.

3. git status : It tells the status of the file in that repository.

4. git commit : It commits the changes and adds a checkpoint to mark a certain completion. In this we also add "-m 'Message' ", where -m means adding the message to
                commit and 'Message' is the message we want to be written with the commit.

5. git remote add origin master : This command adds/links the origin of the original repository at github to the folder in our local machine.

6. git push   : It pushes the committed code to the added orgin repository. In this we add "-u", followed by "orgin master" which ensures that we don't need to write origin
                master again and again. All the other pushes are directed to the origin repository automatically.

7. git pull : Incase there is changes in the online repository, new changes cannot be pushed as both are not in sync. SO in order to sync the repositories, we pull any new
              changes in the online repository and thus downloading the changes into our local folder.

8. git clone : This command helps us clone the online repository in our local machine. It is one of the methods of downloading the repositories. Either a zip file can be
               downloaded or the repo can be cloned.

9. git log : It gives us all the detaials or log of the commits made with a unique number and also the commit message.

10. git config --global user.email "your@email.com" : When we first make a commit the computer does not know who is making a commit. So in order to recogonize the person
                                                      who is making the commit we declare it globally that from this computer the commit is made by this email id.
    
11. git cofig --global user.name "Your Name" : Simialr to the previous command, it globally declaresb the name of the person making a commit from this computer.
